# Multidim lecture 1A,1B

## What should I know?

* Definition of a vector space
* Definition of a projective space
  * How to construct it from a vector space
* Homogeneous coordinates of 2D points
  * How to determine the 2D coordinates from a p j ro ective element
* Dual homogeneous coordinates of 2D lines
  * How to determine the parameters of the line from a projective element
* How to determine the distance from a point to a line using their homogeneous coordinates
* The cross product operator [a]× of vector a
* Intersecting point from two lines
* Intersection line from two points
* Points and lines at infinity infinity
* Coordinate transformations as linear transformations on homogeneous coordinates
  * Translation and rotation (rigid transformations)
  * Scaling
  * Affine
* How dual homogeneous coordinates of a line transform relative to the homogeneous coordinates of a point

## Definition of a vector space

Vector spaces consists of vectors and scalar fields. And the following things can be determined and defined.
* Determin equality between vectors v-u=0
* We can define linear transformations between vector spaces and inside vector spaces.
* We can alson define the following
 * Scalar produkts
 * Orthogonality
 * Linear combinations
 * Bases and coordinates
 * the dimensions of a vector space.

## Definition of a projective space and how to construct it from a vector space.

Let V∈R^n be a vector space with dim n. And let u,v ∈ V. u=sv where s is a non zero scalar. Then we say that u~v we
then define the projective space P(V) as all 1-dimensional subspaces in V, which is alson the union between u and v and wich can be thought of as all lines through the origin in V.  

* We call the elements of P(V) for projective elements.
* A vector u corresponds to a unique h ∈ P(V).
* If u and v represents h then u=sv they are locates on the same line.

## Homogeneous coordinates of 2D points
